************
Introduction
************
This book presents Common Student Errors (CSEs) that have been made by first year students taking Engineering Mathematics e-examinations at the University of the West of England, Bristol (UWE, Bristol). The CSEs presented in this document were collected from 2017-2019 as part of the Common Student Errors Project (CSE Project at UWE) conducted at UWE, Bristol. This research has been conducted by Indunil Sikurajapathi for her Doctoral studies under the guidance of Dr Karen Henderson and Dr Rhys Gwynllyw.

This book is organised as follows. In Section 1.1 and Section 1.2 we present a brief background of Common Student Errors (CSEs) and the Dewis e-Assessment System. Then we explain how we conducted the CSE Project at UWE, Bristol in Section 1.3 and the present the CSEs Collection found during the project in Section 1.4. The taxonomy coding utilised to classify the CSEs in e-Assessments found in this project is discussed in detail in Section 1.5. After that we provide a Guide to the CSE recording template in Section 1.6 which is used in the subsequent Sections 2-23 to present all of the 65 CSEs found to date during the CSE Project at UWE, Bristol.

One of the special features of this book is that it provides hyperlinks to each question on the Dewis e-Assessment System in order to facilitate the reader to try these questions online. If any of the identified CSEs are submitted as answers, then enhanced feedback will be provided, which aims to correct any misconceptions in a timely manner.
The information in this book may be used to inform teachers so that they can provide students with a better understanding of the mathematical skills and knowledge while teaching the subject. It may also be useful for institutions as they can utilise it in the future development of teaching materials to ensure that these CSEs will be addressed. Further, the content of this book can be used to develop support materials and resources to address CSEs which will help students to acquire better understanding of mathematics. In addition, students who learn mathematics at university level or in secondary school can refer to this booklet to address their misconceptions and can try the Dewis questions several times. Since, in each attempt, Dewis produces questions with random parameters, student can use this facility to correct their misconceptions by practicing the same question but with different parameters.

We anticipate that this book will be useful to identify and address some misconceptions that students have in mathematics. We plan to continue with this research and will update the book if we find new CSEs in the future.

Common Student Errors (CSEs)
############################
Students arrive at an incorrect answer when answering a mathematical question due to variety of reasons. The reasons can be listed as random errors, calculation errors or misreading the questions. These errors lead to incorrect answers or loss of accuracy marks. Many of these errors are made by just a few students. However, some of these errors are commonly made by a considerable number of students. These commonly made errors are sometimes referred to as common errors (Rushton, 2014).

Researchers express different opinions about the difference between errors and misconceptions in the literature. For Confrey (1990), the reasons for both errors and misconceptions are the rules and beliefs that students hold. They argue that the difference between errors and misconceptions is that misconceptions are attached to particular theoretical positions. However, Nesher (1987) uses the term misconceptions to describe systematic errors without reference to a theoretical position.

Rees and Barr (1984) use the term ‘mal-rule’ to refer to an understandable but incorrect implementation of a process resulting from a student’s misconception. For example, a classic mal-rule students make is to answer 𝑎2+𝑏2 when asked to expand (𝑎+𝑏)2. The term ‘bug’ is used by VanLehn (1982) to refer to a systematic error resulting from wrong steps in the calculation procedure. A Borrow Across-Zero bug is a systematic error caused by a student having trouble with borrowing, especially in the presence of zeros (VanLehn, 1982). For example, a student answering 98 when asked to calculate 305−117 would be considered as a Borrow Across - Zero bug. In the aforementioned calculation, the student skips the step where the zero changed to nine during borrowing across zero (VanLehn, 1982).
Research has been conducted to identify misconceptions in different areas of mathematics. For example, Brown and Burton (1978) investigated bugs (misconceptions) in high school algebra problems, and Swan (1990) focused on the misconceptions that occur in four operations (addition, subtraction, multiplication and division), and in the interpretation of graphs.

Some Mathematics Education research has explored possible causes and effects of certain mathematical misconceptions and the impact that they have on students’ future learning (Booth et al., 2014; Confrey, 1990; Fischbein, 1989; Nesher, 1987; Brown and Burton, 1978). After having investigated bugs (misconceptions) in high school algebra problems, Brown and Burton (1978) discussed possible arithmetic bugs which might lead to some specific algebraic bugs. Booth et al., (2014) conducted a study to assess algebraic misconceptions that algebra students make at school. They concluded that students who make specific persistent errors due to underlying misconceptions in arithmetic may need additional intervention since misconceptions are not corrected through typical instruction. They conclude that these additional interventions can be carried out by targeting individual misconceptions or by improving conceptual understanding throughout the algebra course. The findings of Brown and Burton (1978) and then the findings of Booth et al. (2014) hold the same conclusions, that the arithmetic misconceptions held by students affect their algebraic thinking. Further, Booth et al. (2014) state that these arithmetic misconceptions can obstruct their performance and learning of algebra.

There has been recent research into theorising student errors supported by empirical studies in the topics of natural number bias (Obersteiner et al., 2013), visual saliency (Kirshner and Awtry, 2004) and over-generalisation (Knuth et al., 2006). Rushton (2014) conducted a study of common errors in Mathematics made in certain General Certificate of Secondary Education mathematics papers taken by candidates in England, including an internationally available version, as referenced by examiner reports, and errors were catalogued into themes and subthemes. More recently, Ford et al. (2018) developed a taxonomy of errors made by undergraduate mathematics students. In their study they gathered errors by firstly recalling the most obvious errors that occur and secondly by analysing students’ exam scripts to categorise them in a taxonomical manner.

Dewis e-Assessment System
#########################


